The South African Police Service were out in their numbers, as they held an eThekwini Outer South Cluster multi-disciplinary operation at all hotspots with in Folweni, Amanzimtoti, Bhekithemba, Umlazi and Isipingo, led by eThekwini Outer South deputy cluster commander Brigadier MVP Mgobhozi and Umlazi acting station commander, Col RB Ndlovu.
The operation involved a number of members, from all police stations in eThekwini Outer South Cluster, inclusive of Umlazi K9 unit. “The operation was conducted and aimed at crime prevention, maintaining high police visibility at hotspots in the eThekwini Outer South Cluster. However, the main objective of the operation was to ensure that our residents feel safe and assured that the police are there to support them during this festive period.
“The police want to show and ongoing focus and commitment to ensure that no serious crime takes place within eThekwini Outer South Cluster hotspots.
Cordon and searches were held at Folweni, Umlazi and Bhekithemba which yielded a few successes of unlicensed dealings in liquor and drugs, however, police visibility was appreciated by all residents,” said cluster Communications Officer, Captain C Rhynes.
She said: “Police saturated the hot spots in the cluster, looking for any illegal activities in the area with enough members to ensure that the operation was conducted safely and that there was high police visibility in numbers and police resources. Successes yielded through this operation were traffic offences, drinking in public, dealing in drugs, possession of drugs, possession of dangerous weapons and illegal dealing in liquor. The operation was a success.”
Brig MVP Mgobhozi said: “I want the eThekwini Outer South Cluster community to feel safe and supported by the police this festive period. It is essential that the community assists us in fighting crime this festive period. The community needs to adhere to all crime awareness tips and precautions this festive season. They should not drop their guard whilst on holiday. Together we can make a difference to ensure a safer and more peaceful festive season.”