‘No bail, rot in jail.’ These were the harsh sentiments echoed by the family of slain Phoenix boy, seven-year-old Elijah Kubair, who was alleged to have been murdered at the hands of his father during the early hours of 24 April 2017. At a protest led by the Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) leader, Patrick Pillay, members of the community joined the highly emotional family and other activists at the Verulam Magistrate’s Court last week when the accused appeared in court. The accused was remanded in custody at Westville Prison and will re-appear in court this week. Kumaran Moodley, the uncle of the slain boy, said that the family is distraught and are still trying to come to terms with their loss. “We want justice to be served and the murderer must be behind bars for life,” he added. “We request the community to stand with us in our call for no bail to be granted and that the maximum sentence be handed down to the murderer. This terrible crime of the murder by the father of our lovely child has disrupted the lives of our family and it is tearing us apart,” an emotional Moodley said. Cllr Patrick Pillay condemned the heinous murder and called on the justice system to show no mercy to the accused, deny him bail and mete out the maximum sentence for the crime committed. “The death penalty will be the only deterrent to stop these callous crimes from occurring in civil society,” said Cllr Pillay. He added, “An innocent life was taken away by a person that the child trusted and sought guidance and protection from. Our community will not support this type of criminality and we are furious. There is no place in civil society for criminals who have no respect for life. The DLC will continue its cause of joining hands with the family and community to oppose bail at the courts. Also, the DLC together with the family are calling on the community to sign a petition calling on the courts not to grant bail and mete out the maximum sentence to the murderer.” Cllr Pillay said that the petition to oppose bail may be signed by the community at the DLC office which is situated at the Phoenix Square, on Youth Day, 16 June, at the DLC desk outside Gem City and by family members and DLC activists throughout all suburbs. “We must stand up and show a united cause against all criminals,” said Cllr Pillay.