The KZN Provincial Government has congratulated the winners and participants of this year’s Mandela Day Marathon whose main 42 km race today covered the iconic route between Edendale and the Mandela Capture Site outside Howick for the sixth time since 2012. “The human spirit has once again triumphed as some 15000 athletes from all over the globe competed in various disciplines in the uMgungundlovu district where the late former President Nelson Mandela was arrested 55 years ago by the apartheid police,” said KZN MEC for Cogta Nomusa Dube-Ncube. The winners of the main 42 km race are Tekletsion Kassahun Tefera (Ethiopia) in the men’s category and Mamarallo Tjoka (Lesotho) in the women’s category. The winners of the 21 km race are Jobo Khatoane (Lesotho) in the men’s category and Betha Chikanga (Zimbambwe) in the women’s category. The second and third in the main 42 km race are Lyno Muchena (South Africa) and Kebede Aberra Dinke (Ethiopia), respectively,  in the men’s race and Selam Abere Alebachew (Ethiopia) and Liveness Madziva , respectively, in the women’s race. “The Mandela Day Marathon has again demonstrated our capacity to organise world-class sporting events that not only bring people together for a common purpose but also provide much needed economic incentives for our communities and municipalities in KZN,” said Dube-Ncube. The annual Mandela Day Marathon aims to celebrate and preserve the legacy of the late former President Nelson Mandela but also provide business and job opportunities for the local communities in the uMgungundlovu district. The marathon is also helping to market KZN as a tourist destination. “Our warm congratulations go to all winners and participants of this year’s marathon. As exciting as it is to win a sporting event of this nature, the most exhilarating experience is to participate and share in its communal spirit. We also applaud all visitors to the province who have come to support these athletes,” said uMgungundlovu district Mayor Cllr Thobekile Maphumulo. The sixth edition of the Mandela Day Marathon has exceeded all expectations in terms of participants’ numbers and facilities available to athletes and observers. The 2017 marathon has also benefited from a major sponsorship deal with ABSA which has brought in an amount of R6-million over three years.
Results of other races are available at www.mandelamarathon.co.za. 