The Shamsaan Pals4Peace tour visited the Durban City Hall yesterday at 5pm where eThekwini Deputy Mayor, Fawzia Peer welcomed Palestinian children who are on tour in South Africa. The Deputy Mayor expressed her pride at hosting acclaimed guests from Palestine. “I have been following the struggles in Palestine for a long time and I am very proud to have these delegates with us today,” said Peer. The ‘Shamsaan Children of Palestine Peace Tour’ is a collaborative initiative hosted by the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, the Palestine Solidarity Alliance, South African Jews for a Free Palestine, Awqaf SA and a range of other groups. To highlight the plight of Palestinian children caught in the crosshairs of conflict, a special ‘Shamsaan Palestine’s Children Art Calendar’ will also be launched during the month long tour. Shamsaan, meaning ‘two suns’,  is a South African project that promotes arts and culture with a calendar that showcases the art, portraits and life stories of 13 Palestinian children. The name, ‘two suns’ was derived from the drawing of Ahmad Dawabsheh (5) which shows two yellow suns shinning in the sky. Visiting City Hall yesterday, was Janna Jihad (11) known as the youngest journalist in the world, Ahed Tamimi (16) known for her anti-occupation activism and Mohammed Nawgahs who also features on the calendar. “Shamsaan made a way for Palestinian children to send their voice through this calendar,” said Janna. Guests at City Hall were given the opportunity to ask questions and hear first hand stories from the children. “It is important for women in Palestine to be free and strong so that she can promote peace,” said Ahed. The tour runs until 14 August. The conveners of the Shamsaan Pals4Peace SA Tour will visit the Westville Mosque on Friday, 4 August to create awareness about the Palestinian condition. A fundraising dinner is being held in support of the children of Palestine at Al Ansaar Hall on Friday, 4 August at 7pm. Tickets are R150. For more information contact Yasmin Suliman 083 785 4332 or Dr Shaheena Sultan 074 037 7222