Three suspects were killed in a shootout with police after a cash-in-transit heist on the M13 highway on Monday. Four robbers held up security guards who were collecting cash from a service station in Hillcrest. According to police reports security guards who were collecting cash at the service station were accosted by four armed men who robbed them of an undisclosed amount of cash. The robbers fled the scene in a blue VW Golf and police was immediately alerted. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, police KZN provincial police spokesperson, confirmed the incident. “Police were alerted and the vehicle with four occupants was spotted driving along the M13 highway. Additional police officers were called in as backup and the thugs were cornered. The suspects opened fire at police and police officers retaliated, fatally wounding three suspects. The fourth man was seriously wounded during the shootout,” said Zwane. He said that the injured suspect was under police guard as he receives medical attention in hospital. “Fortunately, none of our police officers were injured during the shootout. Police seized four 9mm pistols and boxes of cash from the suspects’ getaway vehicle. The surviving suspect will be charged for armed robbery, attempted murder, possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. He will appear in the Pinetown Magistrates’ Court soon. The firearms will be subjected to ballistic testing to ascertain if they were used in the commission of any other crimes in the country,” said Zwane.  The KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa, praised police for swiftly responding to the robbery and preventing the suspects from fleeing with the stolen cash. “I am glad that our police officers escaped the shooting unscathed and still managed to recover these illegal firearms and cash. These ruthless criminals have no respect for our laws or the people of this province. They are motivated by greed and have no regard for the lives that they ruin in the process.”