By Krishnee Naidoo A sex worker suffered the bloody wrath of a furious man and was stabbed twice when she allegedly declined his request for free sexual intercourse at Gandhi Park in Phoenix on Wednesday afternoon. A member of Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) was flagged down whilst on patrol by a civilian requesting assistance for the woman. RUSA head, Prem Balram said, “It was established that the victim was approached by a man who wanted to utilise her services but did not have any money. When she declined his proposition, he drew a knife and stabbed her once in the abdomen and a second time in the face. He then fled the scene and was pursued by the injured woman’s boyfriend and officers from a private security company. After a lengthy chase, the suspect was apprehended. The woman was stabilised on scene by paramedics before being transported to hospital in a critical condition.” Phoenix SAPS Station Commander, Brig DB Ndlovu praised the community member for being pro-active when he witnessed a robbery and stabbing unfolding before him. “At about 3:40pm, members of SAPS Phoenix Trio Crime Prevention were flagged down by a man who alleged that he witnessed a woman being robbed and stabbed just two minutes prior to the arrival of police. “The witness informed the members that the victim was lying on the ground. Members then went and observed the victim and found that she had been stabbed on the face, mouth and on the left side of her stomach. An ambulance was called and the victim was transported to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital for treatment,” said Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Cpt L Naidoo. “The witness had chased the suspect and upon seeing the police, stopped them and informed them of what had transpired.  A 35-year-old suspect was arrested with the assistance of the witness who never let the suspect leave his sight. The members tried to interview the victim, however, she was only able to tell them her name and that she was robbed and stabbed by an unknown man,” added Cpt Naidoo. “The community needs to work more closely with the police, by being the eyes and ears of the police because we cannot expect the police to be all over at the same time,” said Brig Ndlovu.