By Krishnee Naidoo A Redberry Park granny and resident were disturbed from their sleep by a masked, brazen and ruthless housebreaker, who shot them both during the early hours of Wednesday morning, and fled empty-handed. The complainant alleged that she was asleep in her home at Ruston Place, Redberry Park, with her family when suddenly they heard a loud bang on the sliding door. “It was about 1:30am, when she awoke and noticed an unknown banging the sliding door with an iron rod. The said man then suddenly gained entry into the house. He was in possession of a torch and a firearm in his hands. “The armed suspect shot at the complainants’ granny hitting her on her left hand and also fired two gun shots in the direction of the complainant, hitting her in the left thigh. Before the suspect could escape, he picked up something from the floor which the complainant suspects could have been the cartridge from the bullet. The suspect then fled taking nothing else with him. The complainant did not see the suspect as he was wearing a balaclava on his head,” said communications officer at Phoenix SAPS, Cpt L Naidoo. Members of Reaction Unit South Africa responded to the scene after receiving reports from the public regarding the shooting. “Both women were stabilised on scene by paramedics from the Provincial Ambulance Service before being transported to hospital,” said RUSA head, Prem Balram. Police are investigating cases of housebreaking and attempted murder. Phoenix CPF chairman, Umesh Singh, expressed his disgust at the incident and said, “These criminals that roam our streets are merciless. It is clear that their intention is to lay hold to whatever they can use whatever means they have at their disposal with no regard for the consequences thereafter. Two innocent women were shot and wounded leave alone the emotional and psychological ramifications that they must bear. We are placing our faith in the police that they will investigate and arrest the culprit responsible for this terrible crime.”