By Krishnee Naidoo Justice was finally served to a rapist boyfriend who lured his girlfriend into a pathway where he raped her and left her gagged and bound with a packet over her head, before he fled the scene in Mount Edgecombe in April last year. Simo Jabulani Ngcobo (34), received a 15-year sentence for rape and eight years for assault with then terms to run concurrently. According to Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Cpt L Naidoo, the victim alleged that on Saturday, 23 April 2016, at about 5:15am, she was walking on a pathway in the Mount Edgecombe area with her boyfriend when the incident unfolded. “The victim’s boyfriend had allegedly informed her that Spar in Mount Edgecombe was employing and they needed five women to fill the positions available. He stated that he was going to take the victim there first as he was aware that she needed the job. It was early in the morning and still very dark. The victim and her boyfriend were walking alone in the pathway when suddenly the boyfriend alleged that he needed to use the toilet. The victim told him to go into the bushes and he pleaded with her to accompany him. She refused and the boyfriend then pushed her into the bushes where he suddenly raped her and thereafter tied her hands behind her back with shoe-laces. He then forced the victim to open her mouth and tied a scarf around her mouth and head. He thereafter took a plastic packet and tied it around the victim’s head and left her in the bushes,” said Cpt Naidoo. “The victim was unable to breathe for a while and thereafter struggled to untie the shoe-lace from her hands and managed to escape from the bushes. With the help of a security officer, the victim reported the matter to the police. A case of rape was investigated. The suspect was later arrested on 5 May 2016 and appeared in court. The matter was placed on role for trial later and after evidence was led, the accused, Simo Jabulani Ngcobo was convicted and sentenced. This sentence is welcomed especially during the observation of Women’s Month. Perpetrators of crimes against women and children must know that police and the justice system do not look lightly on these criminal acts. Those responsible for such reprehensible crimes will face the full might of the law. Victims in circumstances that subject them to physical pain, sexual assault and emotional trauma are urged to break their silence and seek help. “Report rape cases to the police immediately to ensure that the proper steps are followed and the correct measures are implemented resulting in the arrest, prosecution and conviction of the suspect/s,” Cpt Naidoo added.