Download Tabloid_Advertising_Disclaimer General Charges Disclaimer Errors Copyright in artwork Advertiser’s warranty and indemnity 2. The advertiser will indemnify and keep Tabloid Newspapers fully indemnified in respect of:
2.1. all claims, costs, demands, damages, liabilities, or other charges whatsoever arising as a result of legal actions or threatened legal actions resulting from the publication of the advertisement published in accordance with the copy instructions supplied to Tabloid Newspapers.
2.2. all direct, indirect or consequential liability, loss, damage, injury, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, legal and other professional fees and expenses) awarded against or incurred by Tabloid Newspapers as a result of or in connection with any infringement or alleged infringement of any intellectual property rights caused by the use of images supplied by the advertiser for use in their online advertisement. Non-insertion
1. While every endeavour will be made to meet the wishes of advertisers Tabloid Newspapers does not guarantee the insertion of any particular advertisement. No liability for non-appearance of adverts in Tabloid Newspapers
1. Tabloid Newspapers shall not be liable for any loss or damage occasioned by any total or partial failure (howsoever caused) of publication or distribution of any publication in which any advertisement is scheduled to appear. Publication in the online Tabloid Media Website
1. Unless the advertiser stipulates otherwise, all advertisements published in the printed publication may also be published online. At the time of submission of an advertisement, the advertiser may stipulate that he or she does not wish the advertisement to be included online. This stipulation: (i) must be made at the time of submission of the advertisement; (ii) cannot later be altered; (iii) will apply to all instances of publication of an advertisement arranged at the time of submission of that advertisement. Please note that advertisements form part of the online platform as published and cannot be removed or amended after publication. Acceptance of terms Download Tabloid_Advertising_Disclaimer