High profile dignitaries attend funeral of late political icon Ahmed Kathrada who was laid to rest at the Westpark Cemetary this morning. Pics: From WhatsApp and Twitter feedsWhile President Jacob Zuma confirmed that he would not speak at the funeral of the late political icon Ahmed Kathy Kathrda, deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa led an official special funeral service at the Westpark Cemetery in Johannesburg. Kathrada died on Tuesday at the Donald Gordon Hospital after a short illness. He was 87.Police conducted a sweep of the Westpark Cemetery ahead of the funeral and the arrival of family, friends and dignitaries. Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom directed the programme, while African National Congress (ANC) secretary general, Gwede Mantashe, spoke on behalf of the party.A political tribute was delivered by former President Kgalema Motlanthe, who is part of the Ahmed Kathrada foundation while Ramaphosa read Kathrada s eulogy. Former President Thabo Mbkei was among the state dignitaries who attended the funeral. Others included an ailing Mac Maharaj, Ronnie Kasrils, a supporter of the Palestinian cause and former intelligence minister, former finance minister Trevor Manuel, Pravin Gordhan, and former Western Cape Premier Ebrahim Rasool among a plethora of religious, community and business leaders.Interfaith prayers were led by Maulana Ebrahim Bham, secretary general of the Jamiatul Ulama South Africa, Archbishop Makgoba, Guru Jay Naidoo and Rabbi Sa ar Shaked.In his address at the funeral, Minister for Higher Education and Training, Blade Nzimande paid glowing tribute to Kathrada. He said he understood that the struggle for non-racialism is inseparable from class-exclusion. Nzimande said that he was sad that Kathrada leaves us at a time when parasitic patronage networks seeks to capture our rights .Former Apartheid activist Sophia Du Bruyn said Kathrada was instrumental in the 1956 Women s March and that he convinced husbands to join.Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema also paid tribute to Kathrada saying that he would miss his fearless contribution to the political discourse in South Africa. He expressed delight that Kathrada s family barred President Jacob Zuma from attending the funeral service.Independent Online reported Malema saying that the family s wishes had to be respected and the EFF was happy that the family did not undermine the wishes of the dead. He said Uncle Kathy wanted Zuma to step down and that wish must be realised because in African tradition we do not undermine the wishes of the dead. Kathrada and other several ANC stalwarts raised their concerns about the current state of the ruling party and asked to Zuma to resign. He wrote an open letter to Zuma last year, imploring him to step down after his unpopular decision to fire Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister. That led to the economy shedding billions of rand. ( Click here to read the letter) Responding to media questions Malema said he will miss Kathrada s fearless contribution to the discourse in the country, and his guidance. We needed him the most now because our country is going through quite a difficult period. It is fearless and open-minded cadres like Uncle Kathy who are needed now to continue to speak truth to power, whether the power listens or not, it doesn t matter but they are hearing, said Malema, responding to an Independent Media s question.Monthlanthe quoted the letter at the funeral service, amid cheers when he read the part where Kathrada called for Zuma to step down as South African president. His letter went without a formal reply from the president.