By Krishnee Naidoo The Phoenix Highway claimed four more lives on Saturday night when four young men who were on their way to a deejaying gig at Roccobar Night Club crashed into the concrete barriers on the roadside and died on impact. It was a horrific scene that faced emergency personnel when they responded to the tragedy that left the four young Millbury youth deceased, two of whom were brothers. Members of the Fire Department, who were on scene, had to cut the entrapped youngsters out of the mangled wreckage.
Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Pravesh Karamchand, uncle of deceased brothers Threshen (23) and Nikhiel (17) Karamchand, said the loss of the boys is a huge blow to the family as they were their parents only children. “The family is devastated by the untimely passing of the boys. We were at a prayer when the news of the tragedy broke and we rushed to the family’s home. Threshen was a deejay. He was on his way to a gig and was accompanied by his brother Nikhiel, and two friends from the vicinity. It is unknown what caused Threshen to lose control of the vehicle and slam into the concrete barriers. Police investigations will bring clarity to the many questions we as a family harbour about the accident,” added Karamchand.
He said, “Both their mum and dad are inconsolable at this stage. Upon hearing of his sons deaths, my brother, Suren, who has a heart condition, started experiencing cardiac trauma. He had to be quickly treated and stabilised by paramedics. How do parents ever come to terms with such an unfathomable loss?” added Karamchand. A friend of the family, Avesh Jagesar said, “These young men were model youngsters. They were kind, humble and respectful. I knew them their whole lives and always admired their strength of character.
The other two deceased men have been identified as Anesh Muganlal and Nathaniel Peters.
According to Romano Naidoo of KZN VIP, whose medical and response teams were swiftly on scene, the accident was a grisly sight indeed. “This was one of the most shocking scenes I have witnessed in a while. It was heartbreaking to see four bodies being extricated at one go. It was absolute carnage. This was truly a sorrowful incident and our thoughts and prayers go out to the families of the deceased,” said Naidoo. Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) head, Prem Balram said, “Four men were killed in a single vehicle accident on the Phoenix Highway near the former Trade Centre intersection on Saturday. At approximately 20:47, RUSA members were called out to the scene by passing motorists reporting the incident. Upon arrival, paramedics established that the four Indian male occupants had sustained life-threatening injuries and died on scene. It is alleged that the gold Toyota Corolla was travelling out of Phoenix when the driver lost control and crashed into a concrete barrier in the centre of the road.”
“Threshen was employed and had a heart for people. His goal was to work and be prosperous so that he could care for his parents. He also had a passion for flying and wanted to add pilot to his resume at some point. Nikhiel was in matric and nurtured hopes of becoming a chef. He loved experimenting with food and would whip up meals and treats for his family. He was a reserved and lovable young man,” said Jagesar.
Leader of the Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) and a close family friend to the Karamchand family, Councillor Patrick Pillay said the community is reeling from the weekend tragedy that claimed the four young lives.
“Upon visiting the three families who lost their children and loved ones in such a gruesome accident, one can’t help but share in their loss and grief. The four youngsters were vibrant young men who lost their lives in the blink of an eye. Their dreams and aspirations will now never be realised and their families are inconsolable. This is a loss to our community and we grieve with the bereaved families as they seek closure in the midst of this horrific incident. Our heartfelt condolences go out to them,” said Cllr Pillay.
“I appeal to all our youth and motorists to always be cautious on the road. Be the eyes and ears for other road users as well,    and in doing so you can protect your life and those of your passengers,” Cllr Pillay added.
The four young men were laid to rest by their respective families on Monday.