Bayview SAPS confirmed that a 24-year-old intern from Pam Golding Properties has been arrested for the murder of former Southlands Secondary principal, Gona Pillay.
The 63  year old was murdered at her premises in Silverglen whilst her husband, Loga Pillay (67) was stabbed several times and is currently in a serious condition in hospital. The members of the Bayview Detective Branch worked continuously from the time of the incident, ensuring all forensic evidence was gathered at the scene, interviewing witnesses to gather any leads on the investigation. Bayview SAPS Communications Officer Colin Chetty stated that the team established that one of the suspects was known to the victims as an agent of the estate agency that was mandated to sell this property. “On Thursday, 21 September  at about 1pm , the vehicle, a Mercedes Benz “E Class” was recovered in the Umbumbulu Policing area.
At about 2pm,  the team traced the agent and their excellent investigation technique revealed that the agent is a suspect (24) in the case and is currently in police custody. The team continued until early parts of Friday morning, 22 September recovering evidence in the case including the murder weapon and the investigation is still continuing.
The suspect will appear at the Chatsworth Magistrate Court on Tuesday, 26 September ,” said Chetty. Chetty also stated that at this stage of the investigation, all evidence leads to robbery being the motive of this horrendous crime committed against vulnerable citizens of our community.
CEO of the property franchise, Andrew Golding, issued a statement saying, “Unfortunately, it is alleged that one of the people implicated in this crime is an intern agent working out of the Pam Golding Properties Amanzimtoti franchise office. Needless to say, we are shocked and deeply saddened at this terrible news. Our deepest condolences will be extended to the family, friends and community associated with the victims of this awful event.” Click here to read article: Former Chatsworth Principal Murdered