At the City Regeneration launch held at the Durban ICC recently, waste management was one of the points highlighted by eThekweni Mayor, Zandile Gumede. A focused approach towards waste management that is responsive to the needs of residents, businesses, and the informal economy was one of the points outlined within the inner city regeneration plan. Ward Councillor Hassan Haniff recently met with The Weekly Gazette to share some helpful tips that highlight how the community can play an important role in solving the problem of pollution. Rubbish strewn across pavements and dumped on roadside drainage areas is an eye sore in the Overport area for many residents. Ward 25 DA Councillor Hassan Haniff said that it is important that residents follow the right procedures when it comes to service delivery. “The orange bag, the blue bag and the black bag, these three bags are given to consumers and these bags are only given to rate payers. If the ratepayer has tenants and they request more, he needs to do this through DSW who does not accept cash, payment is done through the utility bill,” said Haniff. The orange bag is for cardboard and paper, the blue bag is for garden refuse and the black bag is for domestic refuse and it is important that residents use the correct bags for their refuse. There is also a clear bag for glass. Using the correct bag is not the only issue as there is also a specific collection day that must be adhered to said Haniff.
“If the DSW dump trucks are coming into the area on a certain day, residents are only allowed to take their dirt out on the morning when the truck is coming. If they take their dirt out the night before and leave it on the street, it is known as illegal dumping and if residents take their dirt out after the truck has completed the collections, they will need to take it back into their premises and put it out the following week or take it to the dump themselves,” said Haniff. Leaving refuse on the verge or street quickly becomes a health issue when bags get damaged by stray dogs or torn and the refuse spills out. By following procedures, residents can help to contribute toward a clean and safe area. If the bags are opened before collection, refuse is easily spread around and some residents believe that informal settlers should be included in the process to prevent this problem. Spokesperson for eThekwni Municipality, Tozi Mthethwa said that prevention strategies have been implemented by the municipality. “Several illegal dumping prevention strategies have been put in place by the Municipality, but the illegal dumpers have been persistent. Police patrols are sensitised to take action when members of the public are found to be dumping and fines of R5 000 have been issued to offenders,” said Mthethwa. “The city provides a weekly refuse removal service to 945 000 households in formal and informal areas. We even distribute and collect recyclable material from households with the orange bag system that we have implemented to encourage home owners to recycle. There are numerous recycling centres throughout the metro as well, and at shopping centres. There really is no reason for so much recyclable waste to end up on our streets,” said Mthethwa.