By Krishnee Naidoo A 20-year-old Clayfield woman faces a charge of Concealment of Birth after she miscarried, froze the foetus and disposed of it with the garbage on bin day, last Thursday. The foetus believed to be about five-months-old was found in a black bin bag. “A woman who was rummaging through the garbage made the grisly discovery on Flatclay Road and alerted a resident. The complainant contacted the police and reported the incident. Investigations led to the arrest of the 20-year-old mother,” said Phoenix communications officer, Cpt L Naidoo. “The mother admitted that she had miscarried the foetus on Saturday night and thereafter concealed the foetus in a plastic packet before placing it in the freezer. She further admitted to having removed the plastic bag on Thursday as she was aware that the bin trucks are scheduled to remove the rubbish on that day. The 20-year-old was detained and will be charged with Concealment of Birth and will appear in court at a later date,” Cpt Naidoo added. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, KZN VIP’s Romano Naidoo, one of the first respondents on scene said, “It was a gruesome sight. It was heartbreaking to have seen a baby disposed of in that cruel manner. “It seems like these incidents of foetuses being thrown away in such a callous manner are becoming harsher and more frequent.” KZN VIP members stood down at the scene until police arrived.” “We urge women and teen girls to refrain from indulging in casual sex that can result in an unwanted pregnancy. It is inhumane to dispose of a foetus in this vile manner.“If you find yourself pregnant and you do not want the baby, please visit the nearest clinic, social welfare or religious organisation or help centre for counselling and assistance,” said Cpt Naidoo. Phoenix CPF chairman, Umesh Singh said, “The horrific incidents of foetus dumping are becoming the norm in Phoenix.“This gruesome practice must be curbed immediately. Irrespective of the circumstances a pregnant woman faces, there are individuals and organisations out there that can assist.“Make a call, speak to someone and put an end to the terrible manner of dumping foetuses and newborns due to difficult circumstances. “Also, we implore individuals engaging in sexual relations to be mindful of the consequences thereof.”