Audi South Africa announced the introduction of the all-new iteration of its best-selling SUV, the Audi Q5. The B-segment SUV combines the sportiness of an Audi sedan with a multifaceted character and a highly flexible interior. Whether in its connectivity, efficiency or driver assistance systems – the new Audi Q5 once again sets standards in its segment. The first Audi Q5 was for many years the world’s best-selling SUV in its class. Since its international launch in 2008, it has sold more than 1.6 million units worldwide. Launched in South Africa in 2009, it has sold 11 300 units locally. The new SUV takes a sporty but elegant stance on the street. A sculpturally flared single frame grille with a solid frame dominates its aerodynamically flat front end. It is available with headlights that are either in LED or high-resolution Matrix LED technology with dynamic turn lights. A distinctively curved and strongly undercut shoulder line gives structure to the side view. The strongly emphasised wheel arches are a reference to the Quattro permanent all-wheel drive system, and the roofline tapers back down early. Just as at the front, horizontal lines at the rear convey an image of width and presence. The interior offers a lot of space for five persons, and it surpasses the previous model and its competitors in key dimensions. Its horizontally oriented lines underscore the impression of width and comfort, and a three-dimensional trim strip runs across the entire width of the instrument panel. The new Audi Q5 is launching in South Africa with two powerful and efficient engines: one TDI engine and one TFSI. They have added up to 20 kW of power, with fuel consumption however being significantly reduced. The new quattro drivetrain with ultra technology, also known as “quattro on demand”,  is standard equipment for the range. The new Audi Q5 enables handling that combines very different strengths – it is sporty while being extremely comfortable. Creating the basis for this are the newly developed five-link suspensions and also the new electromechanical power steering system. Dynamic steering is available as an option; it varies its gear ratio according to the driving speed and steering angle. The Audi phone box connects smartphones to the vehicle’s antenna for optimal reception quality; it also charges smartphones inductively according to the Qi standard. The Bang and Olufsen Sound System with innovative 3D sound introduces the spatial dimension of height. The Audi smartphone interface also brings Apple CarPlay and Android Auto into the new Q5. In its driver assistance systems, the new Audi Q5 also tops its segment with a broad range of high-tech options. In their intelligent interplay, the systems represent a next step towards piloted driving. Adaptive cruise control (ACC) including traffic jam assist can handle some of the steering work in slow-moving traffic. Audi active lane assist makes it easier to stay in lane while the distance warning alerts the driver when the distance to a vehicle drops below a safe distance. Cross traffic assist rear, the exit warning system, collision avoidance assist and turn assist are other new features that perform excellently in pursuit of safety. The dark-toned interior welcomes the driver and passengers with illuminated door sills bearing exclusive S logos. Contrasting stitching on the leather steering wheel and sport seats create a dynamic and elegant ambiance. The S sport seats in Alcantara/leather can be upgraded to fine Nappa leather with diamond pattern and a pneumatic massage function. Aluminum-look shift paddles enable the driver to quickly shift the tiptronic’s gears while the pedals and footrest are surfaced with stainless steel.