Hartley Road Primary School in Overport welcomed on Thursday (23 February) the man who is cycling 3000km to raise awareness of under-privileged schools throughout the country.Azhar Vadi began his epic journey at the Beit Bridge on the Zimbabwean border at the beginning of February, travelling through towns as diverse as Louis Trichardt and Soweto. He has battled on despite rain, flu and an injured knee.Speaking to a packed audience of Hartley Primary fans, Vadi reminded the learners of how blessed they are to enjoy the fantastic facilities the school has and the quality of their teachers. Have you ever thought how lucky you are to have so many toilets at your school? he asked. Do you know I have visited schools with up to 800 learners that only have two toilets, and they do not even have doors. At one school a child fell into the toilet and drowned. Many schools do not have classrooms, they have their lessons under trees. Other children walk a total of 400km every month to and from school, said Vadi.Hartley s headmaster Imtiaz Saib, thanked Vadi for including Hartley in his epic tour, and encouraged learners to be inspired to help the thousands of schoolchildren who could never dream of the privileges that they enjoy.As Vadi travels from town to town educational needs will be identified and funds raised during the #Riding4SAeducation will be distributed accordingly. Among the identified needs are the building of toilets in schools with pit latrines, the provision of containerised kitchens and libraries, school shoes for learners who cannot afford them and bicycles to children walking extremely long distances to class every day.The campaign has been encouraging residents of various areas to forward suggestions of schools they are aware of that could benefit from the project.Vadi is a humanitarian journalist and activist and a director of the Salaamedia Foundation dedicated to changing society through the creative use of media.&#8220;We can help raise funds for initiatives like buying shoes for under-privileged learners, but ultimately we cannot do it alone, and our major thrust is to create awareness and empathy around getting involved in making education equal for everyone, he added.His journey ends at Cape Point in the Western Cape by around mid-March and is joing by other cyclist and supporters on his journey.Azhar can be contacted on 081-706-4622. #Riding4SAeducation.