A 30-year-old suspect faces charges of murder, attempted murder and robbery and appeared in the Durban Magistrates Court on Friday, following the killing of a Brighton Beach police officer on Tuesday evening in Clairwood.Constable Thomas Qhamuka Kwela, 37, was shot in the head whilst pursuing two armed suspects and died on scene with his colleague, Sergeant T Lesolle at his side.The arrested suspect was identified on CCTV footage, and was apprehended by members of Montclair SAPS. The deceased member s service pistol, and a pistol used by one of the assailants was seized from the scene of crime. The group fled the scene in a white Toyota Quantum. Six perpetrators are still at large. According to police, informers have been activated, and suspects have been identified. Several arrests are imminent.Brighton Beach SAPS communications officer, Cpt L Le Roux said, We are a station in mourning. Our colleague was killed in cold blood. A hunt for the elusive suspects is underway. They will be brought to book and will face the full extent of the law. Sergeant Tebogo Lesolle and Constable Thomas Qhamuka Kwela were conducting routine visits at fuel stations situated within the Brighton Beach Policing precinct. At approximately 9:30pm on the evening of 14 February 2017, Cnst Kwela and Sergeant T Lesolle had arrived at a fuel station situated along Solomon Mahlangu Drive, when they were waved down by a petrol attendant pointing towards the convenience store of the fuel station, indicating a business robbery was in progress, said Cpt Le Roux. The spotter for the perpetrators alerted his friends of the police officers arrival. Three of the perpetrators rushed out of the convenience store followed by the fourth. Cnst Kwela alighted from the police vehicle and on foot pursued two suspects, running towards Ganesh Road. Sgt Lesolle chased the other group with his police vehicle and they scattered in all directions. He turned the police vehicle around and travelled against the flow of traffic toward the Ganesh Road entrance, added Cpt Le Roux. In the interim unknowingly, Cnst Kwela was being pursued by the sixth member of the armed group who was carrying an assault rifle. Cnst Kwela came under fire. Two shots were fired in his direction. It is alleged that Cnst Kwela, while pursuing the two suspects, turned his upper body around in the direction of his assailant, while running to return fire. At that point his assailant fire a third shot in his direction, hitting Cnst Kwela in the head. Cnst Kwela passed on with his colleague Sgt Lesolle by his side on the scene, Cpt Le Roux said.SAPS Brighton Beach Acting Station Commissioner, Lt Col Sinayo Mtshali has condemned the killing of Cnst Kwela and together with her management they have expressed their condolences to the mother of the late member, family, friends and his fellow police officers.Cnst Kwela joined the SAPS in February 2010 marking his seventh year in the field. He was deployed to SAPS Brighton Beach as of March 2012.