Excitement mounts as the highly anticipated Haute Fashion Extravaganza, showcasing some of Bollywood&#8217;s top designers takes place this week from 28-30 July 2017 at The Square Boutique Hotel in Umhlanga.The show is a collaboration between Haute Events owner Nafeesa Joosab, local SA celebrity fashion designer Haroun Hansrot and businessman Faisal Supariwala who have appointed internationally acclaimed Bollywood celebrity stylist, Eshaa Amiin as curator of the show. Amiin has been the head stylist of Miss India and has also worked with A-list celebrities.Aditi Holani popularly known for stimulating and creative fashion label, Shoulder Lab, will descend on Durban shores with a host of designers for the three-day spectacular. Tabloid Newspapers recently had the opportunity to interview Holani who shared her passion for fashion.TN: What sparked your interest in fashion?AH: Fashion for me is the art of storytelling. It is something that essentially needs a well thought out concept. I realised much later in life that I liked being Avant Garde and to stand out with substance. What particularly sparked my interest is the fact that it was a fun hands on activity where I would get to create something new every single day. I liked to come up with arty concepts and translate them into clothing and decided that this is my true calling when I really enjoyed every hour of my work and work didn&#8217;t seem like work anymore!TN: When did you get your big break?AH: My big break can be described in two halves. When I got admitted to Central Saint Martins college of art and design, the world&#8217;s number 1 design college, which I had been dreaming about since years.The university gave me a broader outlook and an absolutely different perspective on things. My second break came after a few years when I cracked the prestigious gennext category at the Lakme fashion week . There has been no looking back since then . The efficiency increased , opportunities came my way . It was a thrilling expencience !TN: Speak to us about your signature style and what makes you spectacularly unique from other designers?AH: The USP of the brand stands tall in the way we approach surface ornamentation. We have an edgy touch to the usual textures. We love simple cuts and enhance the look with unique manipulation of fabrics. Our signature appeal would be fringes in any form shape and size. We like to detail the garments, make it fun and wearable at the same time. We would distinguish ourselves from the other designers in the way we tell our story.TN: What can we expect from you at the upcoming Haute Fashion Extravaganza?AH: We are extremely thrilled to be a part of the Haute Fashion extravaganza and even more thrilled to showcase our collection to the beautiful people of South Africa for the very first time. Our involvement is intense and we are looking to serve the South Africans with a touch of crazy aesthetics. One can expect smart casuals ranging from maxis to jackets to throw-ons. This could be teamed up for a random brunch to an important meeting.TN: In your opinion, what makes a designer extraordinary?AH: Immense hard work, standing up for your work and aesthetics and exploring the different paradigms the industry has to offer. What sets them truly apart is their approach to storytelling in a way that&#8217;s never been told before.TN: What&#8217;s on trend at the moment?AH: Casual chic clothing is trending. Lots of layering is to be seen and special mention to the fact that styling is the key, combine your clothes in the most interesting manner.TN: What is a must-have in every girl&#8217;s closet?AH: A casual throw-on that can be teamed up in several ways is a must must have for all. Pick something that you can team up post work for a date or a quiet dinner. Reversibles are a must have too!TN: Colour of the year?AH: There is no such thing as the colour of the year, but I guess confidence is one such colour that never goes out of trend!TN: Accessory of the year?AH: Interesting neckpieces that can be teamed with basic clothing is something to look out for .TN: Any advice for young designers struggling in the industry?AH: A strong belief in the soul and a never give up attitude . Apart from that, stay true and original to your style because everyone else is already taken!The three day extravaganza includes a fashion show and VIP evening with leading designers on Friday, 28 July. Tickets are R500 for General and R900 for VIP. Visitors will enjoy a special preview and late night shopping experience. Followed is a two day exhibition on 29-30 July, open free to the public.