Excitement mounts as the highly anticipated Haute Fashion Extravaganza, showcasing some of Bollywood s top designers takes place from 28-30 July at The Square Boutique Hotel in uMhlanga.The show is a collaboration between Haute Events owner Nafeesa Joosab, local South African celebrity fashion designer Haroun Hansrot and businessman Faisal Supariwala, who have appointed internationally acclaimed Bollywood celebrity stylist, Eshaa Amiin as curator of the show. Amiin has been the head stylist of Miss India and has also worked with A-list celebrities.Indian fashion designer, Shivani Jain of pret clothing label, Tisharth will descend on Durban shores with a host of designers for the three-day spectacular. Tabloid Newspapers recently had the opportunity to interview the designer known for imitable style and versatility. TN: What sparked your interest in fashion and when did you decide to take on designing as a full time career?SJ: When I was in college I used to design my outfits from my mum&#8217;s sarees and used to love doing that. So, I decided to take professional education and make it my career.TN: When did you get your big break?SJ: This year when we showcased at the India Runway Week and a lot of celebrities contacted us for endorsing our brand and many stores also contacted us for keeping our collection.TN: Tell us about your signature style and what makes you spectacularly unique from other designers?SJ: My style is playing with cuts and silhouettes at the same time adding some distinctive and futuristic elements to it. The uniqueness of my designs is that I make pret clothing but they give you the glamour of couture.TN: What can we expect from you at the upcoming Haute Fashion Extravaganza?SJ: I am super excited to be a part of Haute Fashion Extravaganza and I have designed a new collection of very wearable and stylish clothing.TN: In your opinion, what makes a designer extraordinary?SJ: Your design aesthetics and how well you turn your designs from paper to reality.TN: What&#8217;s trending at the moment?SJ: Different types of sleeves and capes are the biggest trend at the moment.TN: What is a must-have in every girl&#8217;s closet?SJ: A black dressTN: Colour of the year?SJ: Tons of grey and blueTN: Accessory of the year?SJ: ChokersTN: Any advice for young designers who are struggling in the industry?SJ: Just stick to originality in your designs and keep working hard. Nothing is impossible.The three day extravaganza includes a fashion show and VIP evening with leading designers on Friday, 28 July. Tickets are R500 for General and R900 for VIP. Visitors will enjoy a special preview and late night shopping experience. Followed is a two day exhibition on 29-30 July, open free to the public.