New York. &#8212; The World Health Organization (WHO) released its report on the global tobacco epidemic today, 19 July, alongside the United Nations high-level political forum on sustainable development. Controlling tobacco use is a key part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.The report finds that more countries have implemented tobacco control policies, ranging from standardised, plain packaging with strong graphic warnings and advertising bans, to no-smoking areas. Since 2007, when one-billion people were covered with such policies (15 percent of the population), these measures have increased to cover 4.7 billion people or 63 percent of world s population. Governments around the world must waste no time in incorporating all the provisions of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control into their national tobacco control programmes and policies, says Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General.South African stats continue to dropThe report includes South Africa in the list of the highest levels of achievement. In 2001, when the legislation came into force, the country was among the world leaders. In South Africa, smoking prevalence is now down to 18.2% of the adult population (about 29% of men and 8% of women), with only 16.2% as daily smokers.Despite this, about 44 000 people die of tobacco related diseases every year in South Africa, or about 8% of all deaths. The triple D threat of disease, disability and death caused by tobacco, costs South Africa billions of rands every year in treatment and lost productivity.Worldwide tobacco use is the leading single easily preventable cause of death that kills over seven million people each year. Its economic costs are enormous, totalling more than US 1.4 trillion dollars in healthcare costs and lost productivity. Whilst we do not have the exact figures for South Africa, a simple calculation of a population of 50 million out of the world population of 70 billion people, would extrapolate to a public healthcare and lost productivity cost of about R12.9 billion. We can reduce this huge loss and save lives by improving our tobacco control legislation, explains Peter Ucko, CEO of Tobacco Alcohol and Gambling Advisory Advocacy and Action Group (TAG). We all face the problem that the tobacco industry continues to hamper government efforts to implement life- and cost-saving interventions, according to the new report. What can we do in South Africa? We must introduce systematic monitoring of tobacco industry interference in government policymaking, which protects public health by shedding light on tobacco industry tactics. These include exaggerating the economic importance of the tobacco industry, attempting to discredit proven science and using litigation to intimidate governments. We must ban all indoor smoking and control smoking outdoors to protect our people from exposure to the deadly killer, tobacco smoke pollution (TSP). We have to introduce standardised plain packaging, with large (90%) graphic health warnings and other messages. We must ban retail displays of tobacco products. Electronic cigarettes must be treated and controlled in the same way as combustible and non-combustible tobacco products.One major and important need is to increase the health tax on tobacco products. The mechanism must be restructured in such a way as to make tobacco products progressively and consistently more expensive and less affordable to the consumer. If we take all these steps we can save lives, save money and protect our children, said Ucko.Report s key findings 43% of the world s population (3.2 billion people) are covered by two or more monitor, protect, offer, warn, enforce, raise (Mpower) measures at the highest level, nearly seven times the number since 2007 Eight countries, including five low- and middle-income, have implemented four or more Mpower measures at the highest level (Brazil, Islamic Republic of Iran, Ireland, Madagascar, Malta, Panama, Turkey and the UK) Monitoring: Nepal, India and the Philippines are among countries that conducted WHO backed initiatives to monitor tobacco use and then implemented measures to protect people from tobacco Nepal introduced the world s largest health warnings on tobacco packaging surfaces (covering 90% of the package) in May 2015 after using a set of household tobacco survey questions that allowed authorities to detect a high prevalence of adult male smokers and users of smokeless products India launched a nationwide tobacco cessation programme and toll-free quit line in 2016 after conducting a global adult tobacco survey in 2009-10 that revealed high interest among almost one in two smokers and users of smokeless products to quit eventually The Philippines landmark Sin Tax Reform Law was passed in 2012 after its 2009 global adult tobacco survey showed high smoking rates among men (47.4%) and boys (12.9%). Such strong tobacco demand reduction measures have contributed to declining tobacco use, according to its 2015 adult tobacco survey results Protect: Comprehensive smoke-free legislation is currently in place for almost 1.5 billion people in 55 countries. Since 2007, dramatic progress has been witnessed in low- and middle-income countries, 35 of which have adopted a complete smoke-free law since 2007 Offer: Appropriate cessation treatment is in place for 2.4 billion people in 26 countries Warn: More people are protected by strong graphic pack warnings than by any other MPOWER measure, covering almost 3.5 billion people in 78 countries almost half the global population (47%). Campaigns: 3.2 billion people live in a country that aired at least one comprehensive national anti-tobacco mass media campaign in the last two years Enforce: Bans on tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship interfere with the tobacco industry s ability to promote and sell its products, and reduce tobacco use. But only 15% of the world s population is currently covered by a comprehensive ban Raise: Raising taxes to increase tobacco product prices is the most effective and cost effective means to reduce tobacco use and encourage users to quit. However, it is one of the least used tobacco control measures.