Durban&#8217;s Mtokozisi Thusi (31) was sentenced to life imprisonment in the Durban Regional Court on Wednesday after being convicted for the rape of a 15-year-old girl.The incident took place in January this year on the Durban beachfront. The complainant and her younger brother were lost and the accused offered to help them find their family. The accused threatened the boy and chased him away and then forced the girl into an alley where he raped her. A passing security heard the child shout for help and the accused was arrested.In aggravation of sentence, Regional Court Prosecutor Shayna Naidoo handed in a victim impact statement compiled by the complainant and facilitated by court preparation officer, Prudence Geraud. Here the child mentions that her life has changed forever. She used drawings to depict her happy self (prior to the incident) and her sad self (after incident).The Director of Public Prosecutions in KZN Adv. Moipone Noko, &#8220;This sentence is indeed appropriate given the circumstances. We hope that it will soothe the victim and her family that at least justice has been done.&#8221;In addition the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Units in KZN have successfully secured 27 convictions for crimes directed at women and children in April. Fifteen convictions resulted in life sentences.Teams of dedicated investigators from the FCS units received 598 cases for the month, many of which remain under investigation or are at court. While 15 remain behind bars for life, 13 others were sentenced to a total of 238 years in prison. A total of 316 suspects were also arrested during the same month for various crimes such as rape, sexual assault, child abandonment and robbery. These sentences are a clear indication that our FCS Units in KwaZulu-Natal are committed and dedicated towards ensuring that they protect our women and children by sending the perpetrators of these crimes to prison where they belong. Our detectives are committed to ensuring thorough and responsive investigations and the efficient utilisation of resources in support of investigation which is in line with our back to basics approach. We are comforted by the fact that the names of these offenders will also be listed in the National Register for Sexual Offenders, said the KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa.&nbsp;