The Playhouse Company opened its New Stages Season Wednesday, 3 May, with a stage work based on the real-life story of Drum Magazine icon, Can Themba.Crepuscule (which means twilight ) is written by Themba and adapted for the stage by award-winning director Khayelihle Dom Gumede for the New Stages Season. The play is an interpretation of Themba s real life love affair with a white woman during the 1950s, a time when such relations were considered taboo.The Durban season has already sold out three performances with bookings for some shows still available.The Playhouse Company CEO and Artistic Director, Linda Bukhosini, said New Stages is about celebrating authentic South African works that are entertaining, creative, original and thought provoking. Crepuscule is one of those works which tick all these boxes. What s more, this is a work by a celebrated author and playwright. This year marks 50 years since Can Themba s passing and having one of his works on our stage is an honour at this time. This is also an award-winning play, from Gauteng s Market Theatre and we want KZN not to miss this opportunity to see it first-hand. Crepuscule had a smash hit seasons at the Market Theatre and at the National Arts Festival in Grahamstown. The play is directed by Khayelihle Dom Gumede, who won Best Director for his vivid interpretation of the story at last year s Naledi Awards. The production received six Naledi nominations in 2016.The play starts Nat Ramabulana as Can Themba, with Kate Liquorish as his romantic partner. Lerato Mvelase plays Baby/Kleinboy, Nhlanhla Mahlangu is Stan, Matthew Lotter plays Malcolm, and Thami Ngoma plays Ous Lethabo/Mama Dora/Sis Pretty.The original Can Themba story is believed to be an interpretation of Themba s real life love affair with a white woman by the name of Jean Hart during the 1950s. Set in the often revered and romanticised world of Sophiatown, the play asks a range of pertinent and contemporary socio-political questions.Themba and Hart s illicit relationship across the apartheid colour bar serves as a means to unpack just how much of our identity is formed by our environment and how much is shaped by our choices as individuals.