  The 65 000m2 brand new Cornubia Mall near Mount Edgecombe was officially opened by MEC for KwaZulu-Natal Human Settlements and Public Works, Ravi Pillay, together with Darryl Mayers, Head of Investec Property South Africa and eThekwini Municipality. The mall opened its doors amid much fanfare and excitement from shoppers and retailers alike on Thursday, 28 September. The opening of the R1.8 billion mall was said to be a major milestone for investors and economic development in the city. “This indoor/outdoor mall was designed with activities and experiences for the whole family in mind and offers world-class shopping, entertainment and an outdoor lifestyle for an active community,” said Mayers. He said the mall is about improving the lives of the neighbouring communities with employment opportunities as well as a selection of food, fashion, lifestyle and sports attractions. “We are thrilled to see the mall completed after eight years in the making and we are hoping that it would become the number one mall in the country,” he said. According to Mayers the mall has brought infrastructure, jobs and skills transfer and improved transport to residents within the Cornubia development and surrounding communities. It created about 1 100 permanent jobs, while at least 2 500 temporary jobs were created during construction. Ward Councillor Siya Thango said it has been a long interesting and intimate journey for all those involved. “This mall has made a huge difference in the lives of the people of Cornubia in terms of employment. With this mall lives are going to change as people have something to put on the table every month,” said Thango. KZN MEC for Human Settlements and Public Works, Ravi Pillay said the opening of the mall will stimulate economic growth. “Customers are looking for experience other than shopping and this mall wills serve as a catalyst in economic development,” he said. According to Councillor Sipho Kaunda who was standing in for the Mayor Zandile Gumede, the mall, set within the Cornubia Presidential project, acts as a link on so many levels between a number of communities from varied economic backgrounds and heralds opportunities for employment, skills transfers, economic growth and development. “The role of this mall, together with other developments set to come on line in the near future, must continue to carve out new ways of addressing the economic disparity that is still widespread across our City. We are happy to see that the Mall has taken up the charge and continues to work with its local communities in creating a sustainable Cornubia community.” The event was attended by stakeholders, dignitaries and community members. It opened its doors amid much fanfare
and excitement from shoppers and retailers alike.