On Wednesday, 18 October at 2:30pm, two suspects broke into a business premises on North Coast Road and fled the scene in their getaway vehicle. Security guards that were in the vicinity responded and gave chase. The suspects aged 31 and 35 were apprehended and found in possession of stolen property and house breaking implements. It was later established that one of the suspects is a police official stationed at Sydenham SAPS and was off-duty when the offence was committed. A case of house breaking was opened for investigation at Greenwood Park SAPS.
Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said, “The policeman’s commander was contacted and attended to the incident. The commander escorted the suspected police official, who was handcuffed, to his residence at Westville to seize his firearm. It is alleged that whilst at the suspect’s residence, the 31-year-old constable managed to retrieve his firearm and pointed it in the direction of his commander. It is alleged that the commander then fired shots in the direction of the suspect resulting in him being fatally wounded.” The Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa, was disturbed by the turn of events. “We are disappointed to find one of our own police officers being involved in crime and it is sad that he lost his life as a result of his actions. We once again re-iterate our commitment to rooting out corrupt elements within the SAPS and if a police official is suspected of being involved in crime, we will ensure that they do not receive special treatment,” he said. Marshall Security spokesman, Kyle Van Reenen said, “Marshall Security were alerted to a house breaking which had occurred at a business premises in Chris Hani (North Coast) Road in the Briardene area. Armed Reaction officers were imm ediately dispatched and on arrival, two suspects were seen fleeing the scene in a silver Volkswagen Polo. Reaction officers gave chase and the vehicle was brought to a stop in Brickworks Way, off of Queen Nandi Drive. The suspects were found to be in possession of power tools, confirmed to have been stolen from the business.”