The Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Act amends the Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 which aims to fight financial crimes, such as money laundering, tax evasion and terrorist financing activities.
The Act hopes to further ensure transparency and integrity within the country’s financial system.
The implication the Act has on South African businesses is considerable and should not be taken lightly. Not only are the various requirements of the Act stringent, if convicted of an offense, the penalties can be severe.
It is critical that businesses affected by the Act understand and fulfil their responsibilities in terms of the Act Who Does The Act Affect?
FICA identifies what it refers to as “accountable institutions” which include banks, estate agents, attorneys and businesses providing money remittance services, long-term insurance services and foreign exchange, among others.
In addition to the accountable institutions, the Act affects all clients and consumers who enter into either a single transaction or a business relationship with them.
If your business falls within any of these categories FICA will have a major effect on how you do business.
Here are the ways that businesses will be affected by the 2017 FICA Amendment Bill: The Amendment requires that accountable institutions which determine that a prospective client is a domestic prominent influential person or a foreign prominent public official: The amendment act introduces the requirement to identify the beneficial owners of legal entities, partnerships and trusts by, inter alia, determining the identity of each natural person who, independently or together with others, has a controlling ownership interest in that legal person. Accountable institutions are obliged to conduct ‘client due diligence’ (‘CDD’) to establish and verify the identities of their clients. Essentially you are required to know who your client is with whom you are doing business. The Amendment Act now imposes enhanced measures relating to ongoing CDD and the monitoring of business relationships, as well as obligations in respect of prominent and influential persons. The Amendment Act also introduces additional due diligence measures relating to legal persons, trusts and partnerships. Client due diligence processes will therefore need to be reviewed by every accountable institution. Section 42(1) of the Amendment Act now imposes an obligation on Accountable institutions to develop, document, implement and maintain a Risk Management and Compliance Programme, which sets out the FICA compliance obligations of the business and its procedures for ensuring that these obligations are met. This must be approved by the board of directors, senior management or other person or group exercising the highest level of authority in an accountable institution. A failure to implement such a programme may lead to administrative sanctions. If one looks at the amendments introduced by the Amendment Act, all accountable institutions will need to review their current FICA frameworks to address the changes identified above. Although the Amendment Act has been signed, it has not yet come into operation, which does provide your organisation opportunity to timeously address your FICA compliance in line with the new amendments