Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital (AAKPH) has teamed up with the Islamic Medical Association of SA (IMASA) Durban Branch and McCord Provincial Eye Hospital to give the gift of sight to 40 financially challenged pre-selected community members in support of World Sight Day on 12 October. The 40 pre-selected patients will undergo their surgeries on the 13, 14, 20 & 21 October at the brand new Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital, situated in Mayville Durban. The cataract extractions will be performed by the experienced skills of Specialist Ophthalmologists Dr P Andujar, Dr S Aghdasi, Dr M Khan and Dr K Moodley as well as the nursing team of Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital. Hospital Manager of AAKPH, Ahmed Docrat said while the initiative was about helping to give the gift of sight, the true gift was being a part of the special initiative with Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital and the Islamic Medical Association of South Africa. “These pre-selected patients have been on the public sector waiting list for quite some time and we feel privileged to be able to step in and assist in giving the gift of sight which many take for granted,” said Docrat. Chairman of the Board of Directors, Solly Suleman said that staff had anticipated being a part of the project. “The Staff, Management and Board of Directors of Ahmed Al-Kadi Private look forward to being part of this fantastic project which seeks to benefit those who find it difficult accessing essential healthcare,” said Suleman. IMASA-Dbn branch cataract campaign coordinator, Yasiera Mahomed Suliman said that IMASA was honoured to take part in the initiative. “We are pleased to have McCord Provincial Eye Hospital on board who will also be assisting by sponsoring the lenses for the procedures. It’s a cliché that we can’t help everyone but we are proving that someone can help someone else and with these small but definite, and we hope recurrent, steps we can make a huge difference to the lives of people who otherwise would have no hope”, said Suliman. Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital is a new private hospital situated in Mayville Durban featuring 164 beds including Maternity, Paediatric, General medicine, General Surgery, Orthopaedic, Neurology, Neurosurgery, Ophthalmology, Endocrinology, Dermatology, Obstetrics and Gynecology, pathology, radiology, and a 24Hr Emergency department, amongst others. For more information visit www.ahmedalkadi.com for more information. The Islamic Medical Association of South Africa is a registered NPO in existence for almost 40 years. The organization was formed in the apartheid era with the objective of providing care to the less fortunate and today has a number of projects under its umbrella.
Visit www.ima-sa.co.za for more information.