Ginger, clove, and cinnamon are all herbs that have a long history of medicinal use. Ginger has been studied in countless scientific studies; it is a strong antimicrobial and also improves circulation. Clove, too, has been studied scientifically and is approved in Germany for use as a topical antiseptic and painkiller. Studies of the internal use of clove suggest that it is likely to be useful for pain relief and fever reduction, but researchers say there is still not enough evidence from controlled trials to be certain of that. Clove is also believed to stimulate circulation (though more gently than ginger does), and to help produce sleepiness. Cinnamon has been used as a folk remedy for colds, flus, and sore throats since ancient times. It is useful for lowering fevers and relieving congestion. Cinnamon and ginger also have a warming effect on the body, which can make a patient feel better if he or she is experiencing chills. Ginger and cinnamon also have an expectorant effect on the body ñ they help coughs to become more productive. When these three herbs are put together, they can be used to make a tea that helps the patient to rest while also relieving the symptoms of congestion, coughs, fever, chills, and aches and pains.
Using a Ginger-Clove-Cinnamon Tea to Relieve the Symptoms of Bronchitis Bronchitis should always be monitored by a doctor. It is particularly important for children, the elderly, pregnant women, and people with weakened immune systems to have their bronchitis monitored by a doctor. In addition, any person who suffers from an underlying health condition, such as asthma, allergies, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or any other serious respiratory or heart problem, should make sure to have bronchitis monitored by a doctor who is familiar with his or her medical history. Home remedies are offered here as a supplement to medical treatment and to offer relief from symptoms. Ginger, clove and cinnamon are all herbs that are generally recognized as safe, and are commonly used in cooking. However, any herb can cause an allergic reaction in some people. Stop drinking this tea, and seek medical help, if you notice signs of allergy, such as hives, and get emergency assistance if you see signs of an anaphylactic reaction such as difficulty breathing, or swelling of the lips, tongue, or throat. Ginger interacts with certain drugs, including heart medications, blood sugar medications, and anti-inflammatories. Clove reacts with certain drugs as well, and should be avoided by people with bleeding or blood-clotting disorders.