A 27-year-old mother faces charges of perjury and defeating the ends of justice after she registered a false child stealing case at Durban Central SAPS on Friday. The five-month baby boy was later found in the care of the suspect’s former boyfriend who is alleged to be the child’s father. According to police, at about 2pm on 16 October, Durban Central Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offence Unit arrested a woman aged 27 years for perjury and defeating the ends of justice. “On Friday, 13 October, at about 6pm, a case of child stealing was reported at Durban Central by a mother of a five months baby boy. It is alleged by the mother that on Friday at about 13:00, she was at the clinic by the market with her baby boy in a queue, waiting to see the doctor. She was approached by an unknown woman who was also in the queue and told her that she likes her baby boy since she only has girls. They continued talking and the baby’s mother decided to visit the ladies room leaving the baby with the unknown woman. Upon her return, she realised that the baby and the woman had disappeared. She waited at the clinic thinking that they will return but she soon realised that they were not coming back and that’s when she decided to proceed to open a case,” the police spokesperson said. “Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit took over the investigation. Upon interviewing the mother as to why she decided to report a baby after so many hours, she hesitated and it became evidently suspicious that something did not add up. Upon interviewing the mother, it was ascertained that on Friday the child was given to the baby’s father who is the mother’s ex-boyfriend and who lives in Illovo. Police proceeded to Illovo to search for the baby. “The baby was found safe and healthy with his family. The baby was brought to the station since he had two fathers; the man he was found with and the man who was waiting at the station. The baby was taken to a place of safety since DNA tests will have to be scheduled in order to ascertain who is the child’s biological father,” added the police spokesperson. The victim then became a suspect and was arrested for perjury and defeating the ends of justice by opening a false case of child stealing. The suspect is from the Siyanda area in KwaMashu. She is expected to appear in court soon whilst the investigation continues.