By Krishnee Naidoo On Friday morning, 39-year-old Sergeant Nonhlanhla Masondo, stationed at Maydon Wharf and attired in full uniform, waited at the bus stop on Bonela Road in anticipation to fulfil her daily task of protecting and serving the community; minutes later she was shot dead and her service pistol was stolen, allegedly by four unknown suspects. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said, “Four unknown suspects armed with firearms fired shots at Sgt Masondo. She sustained gunshot wounds to the upper body and died at the scene. Her service pistol was also taken. The motive for the killing is unknown at this stage. A case of murder has been opened at Cato Manor SAPS and it will be transferred to the Provincial Task Team for investigation.”
Speaking to the Weekly Gazette, a friend and former neighbour of Sgt Masondo, Sumaya Ali, said, “We are still shocked by the horrific murder of our dear friend. Nonhlanhla was a bubbly and friendly person. She always appeared to be a happy-go-lucky woman. Whenever we met there was always a warm hug and a bright smile to greet me. She was a loving mum who doted on her son and daughter. She worked hard to build up her home and make life comfortable for her family. As a police officer, she was passionate about her job and loved what she did. It is heartbreaking to know that she was killed in that cruel way. Our thoughts and prayers are with her children. We are trusting in our police that they will find Nonhlanla’s killers and punish them for taking her life so mercilessly whilst robbing her beautiful children of their mother.” “The KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa has condemned the killing of a police officer. “The death of one police officer is a damage to a nation. A police officer is a custodian of safety of the country. We will work tirelessly to ensure that killers face the full might of law. We send our condolences to Masondo’s family and may her soul rest in peace,” he said. Anyone with information on the incident is requested to contact the local police or the Crime Stop number on
08600 10111.